Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
♪ When I look out my window
♪ Many sights to see
♪ And when I look
inside my window
♪ So many different people to be
♪ That it's strange
♪ It sure is strange
♪ You've gotta pick
up every stitch
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh
♪ Must be the
season of the witch
♪♪♪
♪ Girl, you really got me going
- Hi.
♪ You got me so I don't
know what I'm doin' now
Hello, I'm Jim.
- Hi, Angie.
- Jim Roberts.
- So nice to meet you.
- Nice to meet you.
Are you a doctor yourself?
- Well, kind of.
- Yeah.
I have an academic interest...
Oh wow.
- In the field, yes.
- I can tell.
Yes.
I can, I can introduce you
to him if you'd like.
Me?
- Yeah.
♪ You really got me.
Let me tell you about Julie.
Ah, by the time I'd met her,
she'd been in a,
a mental hospital or a
bin for nine years.
She was mostly mute.
She was labeled a
chronic schizophrenic.
When she did speak,
she spoke in what's
called schizophrenise
which is a language which is
apparently nonsensical,
but if anyone does
actually look,
care to look, it does
actually make sense.
Anyway, she had a very difficult
relationship with her mother,
who only responded positively
when Julie behaved perfectly,
so Julie never had
any difficulties
with eating or
sleeping or teething,
potty training,
walking or talking.
She was like an automaton.
But she felt that her true
self was being murdered.
"I wasn't mothered,
I was smothered."
"She wasn't a mother,
she was killing me,"
"she was cutting out my tongue."
Because her mother
didn't let her develop,
to become independent,
Julie saw her as a
destructive black sun
blocking out all life.
- Freak!
- Give me the knife.
Put it down.
Raymond, put it down.
Raymond put it,
drop it!
Come on.
Alright?
You alright?
Yeah.
Shall we?
Come on, good man, let's go.
That's it.
Well we're all here to
support each other,
so that, you know, but
that also means you can,
you can decide to engage or
not engage as you see fit.
Everyone has their own space
which they can retreat to.
You have your own private space
that you can get away?
Everyone does, everyone
here has their own space.
Mm, that's nice.
I think that's important,
to give that sense of security.
We're very much one
community, one,
one group of people
living together
as best we can.
But sometimes you need to,
you need to be able
to be by yourself.
I think that's important.
Why did you say mothers
make their children
schizophrenic?
I get angry when
people misquote me.
I never said all mothers
make their children
schizophrenic, I never
said all families are bad,
despite what those fuckers say.
Which fuckers?
Those fuckers out to get me.
Raymond is enjoying
some role play.
He's Jesus, I'm Pontius Pilate.
He thinks I am going to
wash my hands of him,
which I won't do.
What's wrong with him?
Ask him.
There are many
people like Raymond
claiming to be the messiah
and they are incarcerated,
electrocuted,
drugged, restrained,
imprisoned against their will.
Why was he in prison?
Nah, it's not prison
it's a hospital.
Oh.
It's meant to be a
cure not a punishment.
I had no idea.
Is it true you don't
prescribe any drugs?
No tranquilizers, no, no
sedatives of any kind
designed to deaden the mind.
And her?
She does have a name you know.
Maria?
Maria, do you want to come
talk to our friend here?
Maria gave birth to a wee boy,
and what should have
been a happy time
became something very unhappy
and she descended into darkness
and she was diagnosed
with what we call
postpartum depression.
Bless you my child.
Maria is a high priestess.
What do you do with
someone like Raymond?
What would you like me to do?
Well, he frightens me.
So he should be locked up
because you're afraid?
He's banishing your demons.
You need to come visit us again.
Oh, I'd like that.
It was very interesting.
Is that good interesting
or bad interesting?
Interesting's a very
interesting word.
I found it quite humbling.
Truth be told.
Well that's alright.
Come on then.
Hello?
- Yeah.
Is this Dr. Laing?
Speaking.
Hi, erm, my name is Angie Wood.
Mm hmm.
Jim Roberts gave me your number.
Does Jim think you
need to come see me?
No, I was at your
lecture actually.
Will you be coming to any
more of my lectures?
Erm, I, I don't know.
I, I was so impressed
by, by what you said.
I'm a postgraduate student
of psychology at Columbia.
- Mm hmm.
- In New York.
I know where it is, yeah.
Of course you do,
it's in New York.
I'm so stupid.
No not at all, you
sound charming,
you sound like someone I should
probably be having lunch with.
Yeah, Jim said you'd
say that too.
You know Lexington Street?
Yeah, sure.
♪ So tired, tired of waiting
♪ Tired of waiting for you
You must be Angie.
Hi. Oh.
What, are you made
of electricity?
You want me to answer
that as a scientist
or a psychiatrist?
Sorry, I'm just a
little nervous.
Something to drink?
- Just some Chianti.
- Very good.
So why are we here?
Well I was so impressed
and just amazed
at your lecture, and Jim said
you'd meet me if I asked, so.
I guess you already
know that part.
Would you like to try?
I'm sure that's fine.
First of the day.
How well do you know Jim?
Oh, he's the first and
only time I've met him
was at your lecture.
My PHD is on gestalt therapy
and that kind of thing.
And I've just, I've read
so much about your work
and your books.
But not actually
read any of 'em?
Well, I've been
meaning to, I just...
Well at least you were
impressed, amazed at my lecture.
You're not taking me
very seriously are you?
We won't be eating.
- Here.
Here, here?
Aye, this is home.
I thought you just worked here.
Well, that too.
A little girl of 17
in a mental hospital
told me she was terrified
because the atom bomb
was inside her.
That is a delusion.
The statesmen of the world
who boast and threaten
that they have doomsday weapons
are far more dangerous
and far more estranged from
reality than many of the people
on whom they label
psychotic is affixed.
Not wrong though am I?
Normal fucking man has
killed 100 million
of his fellow normal man
in the last 50 years.
Whatever happened to her?
Long time ago.
I don't know, she
might still be there.
Couldn't she come here?
I mean, maybe she could
get some help here?
Hang around, you'll find out.
Oh I bet you say that
to all the girls.
Aye, I do.
Sorry, I'm already late.
Patient?
No, my kids are
down from Glasgow.
Children?
I didn't, I didn't realize
you were married.
You didn't ask.
So your wife...
If it makes you feel any
better we're gettin' divorced.
No, doesn't.
What, you'd rather sleep
with a happily married man?
Please don't twist my words.
So, why are you
getting divorced?
Because we don't love each other
or even like each other anymore.
And the children?
Do you, do you not love or
even like them anymore?
I love my children.
If you loved them you'd stay.
What the fuck do you know?
I've read about the effects
of divorce on children.
Well then you'll
know that growing up
in a so-called fucking happy
family can destroy some people.
I've seen what families
do to each other
and I'm not puttin' my
children through that.
A coward walks away.
No, a brave man walks away.
I'm sorry.
No!
Mrs. Holding, I, I know
it looks dreadful,
but let me assure you.
You can't even tell
me how it works.
No.
No, you're right, I can't.
That's because we don't
know exactly why it works.
But believe me, it does work.
And it will work for John,
if he's allowed to stay.
Well, think of it a little
like mending a broken
radio by giving it
a firm slap on the hand.
But Johns not a radio.
He's my son.
It hurts him, and
he isn't better.
What are you thinking?
A visit to a mental institution,
book signing, you know,
that kinda thing.
What a week, two weeks, what?
Yeah something like that.
- Is that okay?
- Yeah.
You know, radio, TV.
I'm going to have to call
you back about all this.
- Oh, okay.
- Yeah.
Yeah, if you could call
me back, that'd be great.
Yeah, we'll speak soon,
we'll speak soon.
Okay, cool.
- Okay, bye.
- Bye bye.
So I was thinking I could
maybe make this place
more kinda homey.
You still here?
What did you have in mind?
Well, would you like
it to be more homey?
I have to forgive you first.
That's true.
Oh, I see.
I don't want you
moving anything.
Don't fucking move anything.
I won't touch a thing.
Everything is in a
very particular place.
Is it?
You'll note my
filing system here.
It's very...
It's very unique.
Worked out to a micron.
Raymond.
Raymond, Raymond.
Follow your breathing,
follow your breath, yeah?
That's it.
Mr. And Mrs. Holding.
John?
Do you want to come through?
Hello, Raymond.
This way.
John.
Mr. and Mrs. Holding.
I'm Dr. Laing.
I believe you've already met Dr.
Zemmell.
He hears voices.
Or at least we think he does.
I think Dr. Meredith
means well but I...
So why are we here?
I'll be honest.
I have great concerns
about leaving John here.
We saw somebody eating
what looked like cat food.
Some people say
you are experimenting
on your patients.
But I want John to be safe,
not in a mental hospital.
I know I can't help him at home.
According to Dr. Meredith,
you're a catatonic
schizophrenic.
John, could you at least
tell me what you want?
I want my own room.
And what will you do in there?
John, we will be able
to give you a room,
although here we
call them cells.
Erm, from the Latin cellar,
sort of a small room where a,
like where a nun
or a monk sleeps.
We'll take it from there,
does that sound okay?
Yeah.
So how will you treat him?
We'll give him what he wants,
we'll give him a cell.
And if he wants to
talk, we'll listen.
And that's it?
Yeah.
Come on.
Mama was struggling.
She held onto him, kept
saying please don't,
please don't please,
please don't.
I was just a little
boy of seven.
I saw it all.
I,
I can't get rid of
the smell of...
Sydney, I'll try and
help you let go of this.
I can't promise it will be easy.
Thank you.
♪♪♪
You remember Jim?
Jim, of course, good
to see you again.
Something I said?
Jim's a wee bit down,
so he's gonna come back and
spend some time with us again.
And Aristotle, you know,
for whom I have great time
by the way, he maintains
that the brain
is mostly composed of water,
and if the moon can
affect the tides,
what, what can it do
to the human brain?
Won't be long now.
Won't be long for what?
The moon.
The moon, stupid bitch.
Hey, didn't your mother
teach you any manners?
Don't you talk about my mum.
There's a sculpture in Ireland
that's 5,000 years old
that's a depiction of the moon.
Yeah, me mother was Irish.
A lot of people say there
are more suicides,
murders, and admissions
to mental hospitals
during a full moon.
Hey, hey!
Get out! Get out!
I'll fucking kill you.
That's enough, let's go home.
It's alright, it's all good.
John?
John, it's Paul.
I'm extremely concerned.
As are we.
Then use chlorpromazine,
or a feeding tube.
Give him ECT.
At Kingsley Hall we take
the Hippocratic Oath
very seriously, and the
promise not to do harm.
If I was to tie John down
and administer
electricity to his brain
or fill him so full of
drugs he couldn't speak,
would I be doing him good or
would I be doing him harm?
John?
What do you suggest
I tell his parents?
They're not my concern.
John?
So hard to get away
from the noise, Frank.
You'd imagine at this time
of day they'd be quiet.
That's all you want really,
is a bit of peace and quiet.
Hey?
How have you been today, Frank?
A little bit down are you?
Yeah.
Do you know what I think, Frank?
Will we have a,
will we have a
little bedtime poem?
Yeah, why don't we do that.
Let's take up from where
we left last night.
Ah yeah.
But if my heart must
break for your sake
it will break in music I know.
Poets' hearts break so,
but strange I was not told
that the brain could hold
in a tiny ivory cell,
God's heaven and hell.
So true that, isn't it, Frank?
You're so soft.
Oh, that makes me calm.
John?
John, I think it's time you
and I had a little chat.
What the fuck is all this about?
John?
You know you can talk to us.
John, when you're ready,
just come and find us.
- Raymond!
- You must see Maria.
You must see Maria.
- Shit!
- You must, you must!
Raymond this had better
be fucking important.
I'll be waiting.
Alright, alright, give
me that, give me that.
Take that. Alright, here.
Would you like me to get in
touch with Isaac's father?
No. He didn't want Isaac.
He was only interested
when I started going mad.
Then he took him away.
But he was right, I can't
look after a child.
None of this is your fault.
I can't.
Some tribes believe
that there is a,
a spirit in the placenta,
the amniotic fluid,
and that if that
spirit gets unhappy
for whatever reason,
then that causes the mother to
experience frequent crying,
and loss of appetite,
difficulty sleepin',
and that is exactly
what we would call
postnatal depression.
How did they cure her?
Well they would summon a Shaman
to perform a seance to
make the spirit leave.
Do it.
Do it. Do it, please, do it.
- Do it.
- No, I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not a shaman, Maria.
- Yes, yes you are.
Do it, do it please, do it.
Please do it.
We must hold hands.
You do it, you do it.
Yes, yes.
Please, please, please!
Can I say something, Angie?
Uh huh.
If you, please
don't be offended.
I really like you.
Yeah, you've got a beautiful
quality about you.
Oh wow.
And you're very,
very compassionate.
Lovely compassionate
quality, like Ronnie has.
He has that same quality.
I can see why you two, you know,
gravitated towards each other.
Maybe.
You've got a lovely smile.
Pffft.
Yeah, it comes from somewhere
deep, you can tell.
Now you're fibbing.
Yeah, it's the truth,
it's the truth.
I like you too Jim.
Well, thank you.
So I'll get back to me...
Thanks for talking to me Angie.
Thank you.
Angela, Angelis.
Boing, boing.
Do you remember that when
you were kid, the angelus?
Don't you find that time is
completely different in here?
Like outside it's
like, whurrrrrrr.
In here it's calm, calm.
Except sometimes when
I hear these voices
and they start telling me
to do things, you know,
like, they start in a whisper
and then they get louder
and louder and then,
like my head is going to explode
and I say fuck it, fuck
it, fuck it, alright!
I'll do it!
What do they tell
you to do, Jim?
Oh, you don't want to know
what they tell me to do.
Sometimes they have a bit
of a laugh with you,
sometimes they say
like obscene things.
Other times they're
telling you to do things
that you just know,
you're just like fuck no,
don't want to do that.
And they're always
laughing afterwards.
Yeah, you see we made
you fucking do it.
Hmmm.
Anyway, today is a good
day, it's a good day.
No voices today?
No voices today, no
writing on the walls.
Well,
no.
Anyway, thanks for
listening to me Angie.
Erm, if,
if Ronnie went away, I
don't know what I'd do.
I know.
Because, like,
sometimes you know
this thing in my head
tells me that if
you take him away,
I don't mean you to
take this personally
but that if you take him away,
then they're kinda telling me
that I'd have to take you away.
Loonies, loonies!
Loonies.
I'm 73, I've never
ever taken drugs,
and, well, I've heard
LSD sends you mad.
You're among friends.
What have you to lose?
But, I don't want to go mad.
LSD is controversial,
but it can have a
profoundly valuable
and therapeutic effect
if you take it in a
controlled environment.
It might help you deal
with your memories.
It might just unblock them.
People who've revisited
memories like you,
sometimes it just, they
can find an inner peace,
they can face up to it.
What do you think,
do you trust me?
I do trust you, yes.
Want to try it?
No,
but, I will.
Alright.
Here.
That's it, a couple drops.
There you go.
Just try and relax.
How long does it take?
Could be 10 minutes,
could be a couple hours.
See what happens.
- Nothing yet.
- No.
I think I'm seven.
♪♪♪
I can smell something.
I can't, I can't.
♪♪♪
Please, please, please, please.
♪
Ahhh!
Please, please, please!
- No!
- I'm sittin' with you.
It's me, Sydney.
You're alright, you're safe.
It's me and Ronnie.
Some terrible things happen
in the name of love.
Well I love you Ronnie.
Do you love me?
Love's a terrible burden
to inflict on someone.
What's the matter?
You know Syd's mother died
'cause she loved him so much?
I don't think my mother
would've died to save me.
She didn't even want anyone
to know she was pregnant.
Maybe she didn't want me.
Certainly don't remember
her ever kissing me,
or holding me or puttin'
her arms around me.
Our house was not
a place of love.
Where was your dad?
Doctors said it was overwork,
nowadays they'd call it
a nervous breakdown.
So you were alone
with your mother?
I've been holding one hand
or another ever since.
[father breathing rapidly
I've spent my life
listening to people
that no one else
gives a fuck about.
You sound angry.
I'm not angry, I'm just
tired, I just need sleep.
I need to go away to
Glasgow to see Suzie.
She's still under the weather.
I'll come with you.
Nah, I don't think
that's a good idea,
she's really not herself.
Please.
Oh, for fuck's sake, it's
not a family outin'.
My daughter's ill.
She just needs to spend
a bit of time with me.
I didn't tell you to leave them.
How are you?
I'm okay, Dad.
I don't want to talk about it.
Okay.
You seen your granny lately?
Last week.
Didn't we, Suzie?
Tell Dad what happened.
Tell me what?
Granny showed us a
little doll she made.
It's got real hair and
is dressed like you.
She's called it Ronald
and sticks pins in it.
She says she wants to
give you a heart attack.
She won't though, will she Dad?
No.
However hard she tries.
I'm pleased you haven't
brought that slut with you.
Susan, elbows please, you're
not at your mothers now.
Right, which slut would
that be, Mother?
Don't talk with your mouth full.
Don't behave like a
savage, use your knife.
Suzie tells me that you, um,
you made a wee doll.
Says you call it Ronald
and stick pins in it,
trying to give me
a heart attack.
Susan you're spilling your tea.
Tell me about the wee doll.
I think it's time
to go, come on.
I don't quite know how to do it.
It's at midnight.
But that's alright, you know.
- It's this way.
- Yeah.
You see, you know what,
you know I think?
- Yeah.
- Anxiety.
That's not good.
Nah, anxiety is no good for you.
I know, well thank you.
No, no, I know what
that feels like.
Yeah, yeah I'm
feeling anxious now,
but I just don't know how,
how to tell him that
this doesn't work.
- Well, look.
What would you?
- Well, you did your best.
- I tried.
You spent a lot
of hours on this.
I've spent three hours
today doing this.
Three hours.
No, none of these
things fit that.
I don't understand them.
I used to, but my
memory's gone a bit.
I thought you could help,
I thought you would help,
but never mind.
The only thing I know how to do
is read the front
of it, you know.
When you think about
it, really, you know,
when we've got
watches and clocks,
do you know what the
first clock was?
- No.
The Moon,
was the first clock.
Is that a clock?
Yeah, well that's how
With the dial on it?
Yeah, that's right.
Well, no.
People used to look
up at the moon
and they'd say, oh
it's night, it's day.
That was the first
kind of clock.
And then we developed
these things.
So it never had an
instrument going round
on the moon?
- No, no.
- It was all in the...
No.
What's wrong with
you, old sport?
You don't have to be afraid.
Hey, what's wrong with you?
Get away from me.
Get away.
Silence is golden.
Hey what's the matter with you?
What's wrong with me?
Yeah, let's give him some space.
He's got space.
Well let's give him some.
You leave him alone.
Let's give him some
more, come on.
I am the alpha, I am the omega,
I'm the beginning and the end.
Do you understand
what I'm saying?
- I understand.
- Alright.
But come on, let's, let'
Unhand me, sir.
♪♪♪
Jim, let's go have a smoke.
Jim. Come on, let's
go have a smoke.
Jim, let go.
Let go.
- Jim!
- Let go!
Let her go, let's
go have a drink.
♪♪♪
- Thank you very much.
- Cheers.
Thank you so much.
- It's all worth it.
That's not as far as me.
Hi.
Boo.
You come again.
You're a cult figure here
in the USA, Dr. Laing.
Are you surprised
at your success?
Should I be surprised?
I'm told that at your Kingsley
Hall Mental Institution
you advocate treatment
for schizophrenics
without any kind of medication?
Kingsley Hall is not a
mental institution.
It's a small household of people
in different states of mind
who are trying to live together
in the absence of
power relations.
So no distinction between
doctors and patients?
Well there are doctors
and there are patients
but we're all living
together as people.
Sometimes doctors
need to be helped,
and sometimes those that we call
patients can offer comfort.
And how successful are you?
Well there's been no murders.
You sell thousands of books
on student campuses.
They call you the Acid Marxist.
Well I don't.
It's said your books are on
every student's bookshelf,
somewhere between
Castinada and Marx.
You're appearing at
the same concert
as The Grateful Dead.
You've even been called the
white Martin Luther King.
In the 10 seconds
we've got left,
have you a message for America?
Psychiatry is the only
branch of medicine
that treats people in
the absence of symptoms
and signs of illness.
It's the only branch of
medicine that treats people
against their will
and imprisons them,
and the madness of our patients
is a result of the destruction
wreaked upon them by us,
by them and themselves.
But madness need not
be a breakdown.
It could be a breakthrough.
Can be potentially liberating.
But people need tranquilizers.
Tranquilizers prevent
communication.
How can you have a
dialogue with the mad man
if he's dead in the brain?
Sarah really hasn't
spoken for 18 months.
We tried to engage with her.
She doesn't eat so
we force feed her
and of course she's violent.
That's why she's here.
I'd like to see her.
Of course.
It would be interesting
to hear your assessment.
Hello.
Mind if I sit with you?
Do you mind if I, can I?
A little cooler.
I'm Dr. Laing.
You can call me Ronnie.
Do you want one?
I'll just leave one
there, if you, if you...
Sorry, do you mind?
It's quite comforting, isn't it?
Yeah.
Kind of like that rhythm.
Shall we have a wee chat?
It's difficult in
here, isn't it?
Does it give you a headache?
I, a chap I know in London is a,
he's a Indian
Acupuncturist, you know.
And all these points, we have
all these points everywhere.
There's just, there's
two in there,
if you can get them, it just,
it just..
This would give me a
headache in here.
Might just help.
Do you want, do you mind if I?
Do you mind?
Just here.
Just there.
This can be quite
nice, you can just,
just clears your head
a wee bit maybe.
Just like that.
Do you mind if I just?
If I can just get right, no?
I find it just does,
all these points,
there's a lot in your feet.
Do you mind if I, if I just,
just take your,
and just...
He tells me there's
a point in the foot
that is related to every
other bit of you.
Everywhere, if you
just find the right...
I mean, I'm not an expert.
But it used to be
quite relaxing.
I mean, you're stuck
in here all day.
How long have you been in here?
A long time?
- Yeah.
Are you hungry?
I'm quite hungry.
Should we send out
for some pizza?
Hello, could you
get us some pizza?
Not too much cheese on mine,
I don't want to risk a migraine.
Sarah will, erm,
what do you want?
Mushroom?
Pepperoni?
Pepperoni.
Sarah will have
pepperoni, thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
What you did was
most unconventional
and highly unprofessional.
Professor, it's your job
to understand what
she's trying to say.
It's not her job to
try and understand
why you're filling her
full of tranquilizing shit
and locking her away.
Without this tranquilizing shit,
as you call it, most
of our patients
would get no peace whatsoever
from their illness.
Is that right?
See, I just wonder who's
gettin' more peace.
Is it them or you?
- Sarah's condition...
- I'm not fucking finished.
I think you are.
Here you are mate,
keep the change.
Oh cheers, gov, very kind.
Did you miss me?
What is it?
Paul?
It's just too much.
You do look awfully tired.
Why don't you just, just lie
down and have a wee nap.
Go on.
Yes.
That's good, huh.
And the demon waited at
the mouth of the cave
for the baby to be born
so that he could eat it.
You need some fucking help.
Mhmm.
It'll eat your baby in all.
I don't have a baby.
What you lookin' at?
Hm.
Paul.
I, erm, I don't think I can
stay here much longer.
Before I help you with that,
if I can help you with that,
erm, you have to help me.
As far as I can see, in the
night you broke that vase.
But, I've been asleep.
You must have got
up for a piss then.
Angie loves that vase, she's
going to be really upset.
I don't...
I know how you like Angie.
What're we gonna do?
Well it looks completely fucked.
Aye, it is Paul.
We can, erm, try and fix it?
Try and fix it, aye.
Yeah.
If I put enough glue on it,.
Yeah, it'll be fine.
Everyone wants a piece of you.
Don't you get tired of it all?
- In there.
Right here?
Oh god, it's everywhere.
Ohhh.
And what do we think of that?
That is beautiful.
That is just the ticket.
Very, very lovely.
And Humpty's back
together again.
Do you think people
might notice?
I'll dim the lights.
I feel a little better.
- Yeah.
Thank you.
Everyone!
Would anybody like
to sing a song?
No? You.
You look like you
can sing, come on.
One song.
Okay, I'll do it.
Aww, Angie.
Do you know, After You've Gone?
- Yes please, thank you.
Do you know this one
♪♪♪
♪ After you've gone,
and left me crying
there's no denying
♪ You'll feel blue,
you'll feel sad
♪ You'll miss the dearest
pal you've ever had
♪ There'll come a time
♪ Now don't forget it
♪ When you'll regret it
♪ Someday when you feel lonely
♪ Your heart will
break like mine
♪ And you'll want me only
♪ After you've gone,
after you've gone away
♪
Very lovely.
I didn't know you could sing.
- No, I can't!
- You kept that a secret.
It's a big secret.
I hate sharing you.
I want you all to myself.
You want to own me?
No.
But I do want more of you.
You can have as
much as you like,
as much as I can give you.
Can we talk?
Is that not what we're doin'?
If I were to have a baby.
- No.
But, if I were?
Oh Christ, Angie.
I already got five children,
and don't see much of them.
Well that's your choice.
It was the mother that
I left, not them.
But if I were to have a baby,
our baby.
I can't stop you having a baby.
But would you, would you
like me to have a baby?
Would you like me to
like you having a baby?
See it's okay for you.
You have a family and
your, and your work
and the famous Dr. Laing.
What do I have?
A half finished PHD and
a tiny bit of you.
If you want a baby, have a baby.
What's wrong with you?
You wouldn't have spoken to
me like this six months ago.
Well you didn't want a
baby six months ago.
Well I haven't said
I want one now.
Okay.
Okay, let's have a baby.
Yeah?
Hello, Baby.
We have to find a way of
engaging in a truthful dialogue
in a language without
knots and entanglements
and the wee, the wee
barbs of hatred
and spite and revenge
and jealousy
and malice and envy that,
that creep into our mouths
and hide in our words.
Ronnie's working on
threesomes right now.
Yes well, we know how hard it is
to keep a marriage
alive, don't we?
How true that is.
Are you speaking from
personal experience?
Unfortunately yes.
Life.
Is a sexually
transmitted disease,
and the mortality rate
is 100 fucking percent.
Listen I'm serious.
Bedrooms are the most dangerous
places on the earth.
What will you call him?
I don't know.
I was thinking,
I was thinking maybe Shadow.
Shad.
Why?
Because that's where
he'll spend his life,
in Ronnie's shadow.
If he doesn't burn
to cinders first.
Don't. Don't.
You are not, you are not
crazy, like the rest of us.
But sometimes I wish I was.
No.
But I'm not.
I'm nothing special.
I'm just ordinary.
Ronnie, he's like this,
this hot bright sun, isn't he?
He could have any
woman he wants.
He picked me,
and when he focuses
his attention on you,
you can just, you
can just burn up.
He makes me feel extraordinary.
Well, he used to.
The only thing he loves
as much as his patients
are his children.
I thought we could be a family.
Maria,
what if I've made a
terrible mistake?
No.
Don't be sad.
- Okay.
I'm hungry.
What's for breakfast?
This is a nice surprise.
John, this might sound
like a dumb question
but are you actually
going to eat that?
- Yeah.
- Okay, well
it's been quite a while
since you've had any food
and that might be a
little bit aggressive.
Let me get you something else.
Nice to have you with us.
Porridge.
In Scotland, we use
salt not sugar.
How are you?
Okay.
Are you able to tell us
what's been going on?
I don't think you'd understand.
Maybe I will.
Anyway, it doesn't
matter now, it's over.
What's over?
The mission.
I had to count to a
million, one by one,
then back to zero
without stopping.
Why?
It's the only way to
silence the voice.
Whose voices?
One of my voices.
The one that frightened me.
John, have you been
counting this entire time?
Five years.
Oh for fuck's sake.
Electric shock stopped me.
It really hurt my head and
I forgot where I was.
Sometimes the voices made me
deliberately lose track
of where I got to.
Why didn't you talk to us?
The voice wouldn't let me.
It's okay, it's okay.
Can I see my parents?
Of course you can,
yeah, we'll call them.
What was it you wanted, Jim?
And she was delivered
of a manchild,
and when he came
forth from her womb,
the dragon was waiting at the
mouth of the cave to eat him.
You're misquoting
Revelations again now Jim.
I'm so worried about
the birth of this,
of this child, Ronnie.
I'm tormented by it.
Jim, the child is not yet born.
Yeah, but when it is
born, it won't be me.
- Go away!
- Alright, just.
- Get out!
- Alright, right, just,
alright, just, good.
Here we go, here
we go, here we go.
Angie, how are you
feeling right now?
Are you doing okay?
- For fuck's sake!
- Alright, alright, alright.
Give her some space.
It's coming.
The head's coming.
- Visualize, Angie!
- Here we go, here we go.
- Visualize, Angie.
- This is my first time, yes.
It's coming.
It's a boy.
- It's a boy.
Shhh.
Dr. Laing, Dr. Laing, could
you say something for us?
Could you say something for us?
Not now.
It's okay. It's okay.
It's okay.
Shhh.
Okay, how do you
guys feel right now,
can you just, talk
to the camera?
Anything you want to say?
- Not now.
Okay, let's just,
just keep on them.
Hello, Gabriel.
Hello.
Hello!
I think we got this.
Should we keep rolling,
you wanna keep rolling?
Are we good?
Keep rolling, keep rolling.
He's perfect.
- He is perfect.
Guys, sorry, have you
got a name for the boy?
Fuck off.
Alright, keep rolling.
Hello little baby.
Raymond, could you, could you
just look at the camera?
Could we have a quiet
word with you?
Can we get any close ups?
Can we get close ups?
Come on Barabus, open up.
Open up.
There.
There you go.
Now.
Can't believe it,
forgot the hammer.
Did you know he stole
and ate the placenta?
Yeah, anything goes, but
we have a duty to protect.
Well who protects Jim?
He came here for sanctuary.
Ronnie, he might kill someone.
Do you really wanna
take that risk?
Why didn't you
tell me about Jim?
Well I didn't care when
he threatened to hurt me,
but he's talking
about stealing Gabe.
I had to tell someone.
Why didn't you tell me?
I'm telling you now.
So what are you
gonna do about it?
I'm dealing with it.
I failed him.
You failed him?
Ronnie, he's
threatened to kill me.
You know I'd never
let that happen.
There's someone with
him, all the time,
round the clock.
He's still here?
I can't just throw him out.
If I did that every time
someone had a problem
there'd be nobody here.
I will live anywhere you want,
you know that, but
you have to tell me
that we are going to be safe.
The call men, Angie.
Save one soul save the world.
Well let that one
soul be our baby.
He didn't choose to live
in this fucking mad house.
But do we actually know how.
Electro convulsive
Therapy works?
No.
Of course we don't know
precisely how ECT works,
we never claimed we do.
We simply know it does work.
What he fails to mention is
that after receiving ECT
some people lose their memory,
not to mention
their personality.
Dr. Laing must agree
that this procedure
is the most effective treatment
for severe depression.
No, I don't agree with
anything you say.
After less than five
minutes from first
laying eyes on a stranger,
and without this stranger
even having moved
or uttered a word, he can
have them taken away,
drugged, electrocuted, or have
bits of their brain removed.
That's not entirely true. You
know, the Nazis executed
50,000 psychiatric patients
to prevent them from breeding.
That's hardly relevant.
Well it was fucking
relevant to them.
Dr. Laing, language please.
Dr. Meredith, I can
only apologize.
I've heard far worse.
- Hello.
- Dr. Laing.
How is she?
The test results have confirmed
her initial diagnosis.
I'm sorry.
What we can offer now
is palliative care.
How long?
It's impossible to say.
Every case is different.
Oh come on, spare me.
What are we talking?
Days, weeks, months, years?
Weeks.
She knows she's very ill
so there's no point
in telling her anymore than
is absolutely necessary.
Well don't you think she's
got the right to know
that she's not gonna
wake up one day soon?
Her mother doesn't
want her told.
Right.
Alright, thanks.
Hello!
Hi, Dad.
How you feeling?
Tired.
Dad, I want the truth.
We've always known that
there was no cure.
So I'm going to die?
Yeah.
When?
Soon.
Dad, I'm scared.
Shhhh, it's okay.
Shhh.
Can I ask you something?
Anything.
Do you believe in
life after death?
Whoa.
That's a big question, that is.
That's a belief in God.
I was going to ask that too.
Ahh.
Wow.
Well we could sit here all day
debating questions like that.
I've got time.
Well,
the Buddha was asked
about the creation of
the world and he said
that he only ever tried
to answer questions
that could potentially
be answered.
Go about.
For what it's worth, yeah, I
think there's more to life
than being trapped in a body.
It's alright.
Shhh.
I helped you into this world,
I'll help you leave it.
It's okay.
I'm here.
♪ Wherever we may turn
♪ This lesson we must learn
♪ A boy's best
friend is his mother
Ronnie stop it, we're trying
to get to sleep, please.
I'm singing him a wee song
so he knows about his mother's
sweet and gentle love.
You've just come back,
you haven't even
said hello to us.
♪ So cherish her with care
♪ And smooth her silvery hair
♪ When gone you
will never get an
I said stop it, I mean it.
But I like that song.
Talk to me, please.
About what?
Anything, just,
just talk to me.
You have time for
everybody but us.
We live here in this
mad house, just to be with you.
Give the fucking
martyrdom a rest.
I deal in human fucking
misery every day.
Up to my neck in
people's emotional shit.
Who takes care of me?
I'm supposed to heal.
I can't do that if I
can't even help myself.
You have to stop drinking, okay?
Okay?
Timothy Leary said
that he would,
ah, he would distribute 300,000
trips of acid for free.
He was telling me, he says,
"Ronnie, Britain's your patch."
He wanted me to do it!
I said, fuck you.
Imagine getting fucked by
somebody else's fantasy.
Alright.
Let's see who's the stronger!
Come on, Ronnie.
That's it.
Take him out.
Come on, come on, get off!
I suppose I just feel
taken for granted.
Everyone else's
problems seem so,
so fucking important.
There never seems to
be any time for mine.
I will always find
time to listen to you.
Am I interrupting?
No we were, we I was
talking to her.
Please, Ronnie.
What's your game?
What game would that be?
You're drunk.
And you're a fucking slut,
but in the morning
I'll be sober.
I doubt that.
Ooh!
You disgust me.
You fucking disgust me!
And your fucking disgusts me.
Paul is our friend.
He was trying to be nice to me.
I can't do this anymore.
What has happened
to you, Ronnie?
I don't even recognize
you anymore.
Do you have any respect for me?
You think I'm sleeping
with everyone?
No, no, no.
Just the odd one or two.
I'm not!
You're becoming as
deluded and paranoid
as the rest of them.
What the fuck do you know
about delusion and paranoia?
You live a charmed life.
All I've got is misery.
You know fuck all
about misery either.
You should hear the
things I hear.
You've no idea what some
of those poor bastards
go through everyday.
Oh yes, and only the great Dr.
Laing can help them.
Every other single psychiatrist
in the entire world is wrong.
Only Dr. Laing can cure them
in his famous fucking mad house.
You love all this!
Angie,
you're all I've got.
If I lose you, I got,
I've got nothing.
I can't feel your love.
I can't feel yours.
You alright?
Fuckers!
Don't worry everyone, keep calm.
I'm going to sort this out.
You small minded fucking
hypocritical bastards.
Come on then, come on then!
Take all this!
- Yes.
Hello John.
- Gentlemen.
Right.
Now, Dr. Laing has
taken over the care
of a former patient of mine,
an extremely
vulnerable young man.
He was responding well to
chlorpromazine and ECT.
Laing has since withdrawn
all treatment.
So what is he doing?
Well Dr. Laing is
a great advocate
of allowing nature
to take its course.
Meaning?
He, he lets people go mad,
believing eventually they
will heal themselves,
or God will.
And your patient?
I wasn't allowed to see him.
Laing said he wanted to be alone
and that they
respected his wishes.
And this boy is being allowed
to starve himself to death,
locked in a room without
vital medication.
And remind us what
the police found.
A small amount of
LSD, on license.
I suggest we make a
formal inspection,
then move for a
recommendation for closure.
I'm so sorry
Ronnie.
What's happened
Ronnie, what's wrong?
- Suzie died.
It's okay, it's okay.
And she shall burn,
and the kings of the earth
who have fornicated
deliciously with her
shall weep and lament at
the smoke of her burning.
Where's that bastard
you've spawned?
Go on.
Jim. Jim.
Jim!
Satan who was cast
out of heaven,
and all his angels.
- Get out! Go on!
- And all his angels
delivereth from the world.
- Enough!
- No.
Ronnie, Ronnie!
They shall know who you are,
they will cast you
out, cast him out.
What you think about me?
I know what's happening.
What's that whore of Babylon
been saying to you?
- Right.
- No!
Mind his head.
- You're in a lot of pain.
- I'm not in pain.
You're either gonna hurt
yourself or someone else.
I can help you.
- I'll be good!
- I'm not gonna hurt you.
- You have to trust me.
- I'll be good!
No, no!
You said no drugs!
Ahhh!
Ahh!
You're a traitor.
You're a fucking hypocrite.
Jim's been sectioned.
Well done.
What the fuck do you want?
You don't want him here, you
don't want him hospitalized.
You don't want him
to hurt people,
you don't want him tranquilized.
I did not want him sectioned.
What did you think would happen
when we turned our back?
Well guess what, they've
come for John too.
We're obliged for his own safety
to section John Holding.
Are you kidding me?
For his own safety?
What's wrong with him?
John!
There's Daddy.
Alright, I won't be a minute.
You alright, Jim?
Still snowing.
Don't have to go
to school today.
No.
Remember when we made
the snowman last year
and the rain just
washed it away?
Do you remember that, Dad?
Aye.
Yeah.
Do you want to go
on a wee adventure?
Come on.
For fuck's sake.
Excuse me sir, can you drive on?
We'll go up to the
main road and phone.
Give me him, it'll be quicker.
♪♪♪
♪ Well, it's a marvelous
night for a moondance
♪ With the stars up
above in your eyes
♪ A fantabulous night
to make romance
♪ 'Neath the cover
of October skies
We're just at the top of hill
on the bend of the
road by the hospital.
♪ To the sound of the
breezes that blow
♪ Yeah and I'm trying to
please to the calling
♪ Of your heartstrings
that play soft and low
♪♪♪
John's very fortunate
to have your support.
And friendship.
Well,
you're among friends, Sam.
You speak, I'll stay silent.
It doesn't matter.
♪♪♪
$ And all the night's magic.
Here we go.
♪ Seems to whisper and hush.
♪
Alright. $ And all
the soft moonlight.
He's been at a
fancy dress party,
he's a bit drunk, just
gettin' him home.
♪ Can I just have one more
moondance with you, my love
♪♪♪
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org